# 06. 意大利导演 Leonardo Dalessandri 拍《中国瞭望塔》（Watchtower of China）有感

::: tip 我有话说
《中国瞭望塔》的链接在这：[点击进入](https://m.weibo.cn/status/4782591880727150?sourceType=weixin&from=10C8195010&wm=9006_2001&featurecode=newtitle)

音乐，故事，镜头，三者交相融合浑然一体，无缝转场的高级运用，强烈安利！！！你会感受到什么叫做中华文化的“博大精深”“敦实厚重”！

:::

Creating <text style="color:green;">Watchtower</text> of China was a <text style="color:green;">labour</text> of love. I say labour because we, meaning my crew and I, throughout three <text style="color:green;">consecutive</text> summers, visited over seventy cities and travelled countless thousands of kilometers. Everywhere we went, we found ourselves <text style="color:green;">channelling</text> the powerful energy of this great land to find the strength and inspiration to continue our <text style="color:green;">quest</text> along what became life-changing for all of us. When we initially gathered together we were a film crew. By the time we were done, three years later, we had become a family.

I say love, because what we have created is more than just a film. It is a <text style="color:green;">declaration</text> of our love for this Country.

When I set out on this project I wanted to create a visual <text style="color:green;">tribute</text> to China - an honest observation of daily life. Not a surface travelog, but a real and raw representation of the cultural history. An honoring of Chinese culture, identity, and the complex and varied way of living that <text style="color:green;">spans</text>  the <text style="color:green;">enormity</text> of the Chinese <text style="color:green;">territory</text>. A window on the <text style="color:green;">dedication</text> and <text style="color:green;">discipline</text>, the craftsmanship and hard work of the Chinese people. They have an energy of moving forward together as they draw power and inspiration from a culture that looks back over thousands of years, yet rushes fearlessly towards a bold future.

I started to feel this intense energy, as though this cultural pride and determination were now moving through me and my camera. The experience of this film buried itself so deeply within me that I can still feel the hard day’s work in my muscles.

It couldn’t have come together without the help of my dear friends, especially Jolien Snyers and Ricky Choy (did you spot Ricky in the film? She’s in multiple shots and sings in the very last taxi shot!)

It is one of my proudest accomplishments.
I hope you love it.

|英语生词 | 中文释义 |
|:--:|:--:|
|Watchtower|n.瞭望塔 |
|labour|n.劳动，（一段时间的）工作 |
|consecutive|adj.连续的 |
|channel|n.频道，渠道；途径；系统；<br/>v.引导；（利用某种途径）输送资金；传送 |
|quest|n.探索，寻找 v.探索，追求 |
|declaration|n.公告，宣告，宣言；宣布 |
|tribute|n.颂词，贡品，悼念；致敬 |
|span|v.持续，贯穿，涵盖（多项内容）<br/>n.持续时间，范围，包括的种类 |
|enormity|n.巨大；深远影响；严重性 |
|territory|n.领土，版图；领地；（个体的）领域 |
|<text style="color:green;">span</text> the <text style="color:green;">enormity</text> of the Chinese <text style="color:green;">territory</text>|贯穿广阔的神州大地 |
|dedication|n.献身，奉献 |
|discipline|n.纪律；训练；行为准则|