# 2*Second【写作】*：The 5 Phases of Leading Through a Crisis 
Issue: On Leadership

写作：

1	模板式写作 — 最初级写作方式

2	参考式写作 — 基于大量语料的重新组合（改删编）

3	原创式写作 — 高级写作方式

个人写作思路 + 现有写作素材

***写作主题***：领导力

::: tip 写作内容：	

1、我们为什么需要领导力？背景

2、什么是领导力？总括

3、领导力具体有哪些体现？具体细节

4、我们应该如何提高领导力？建议

5、提高领导力会带来什么结果？作用

:::

***写作要求***：总分结构、首尾呼应

leading organizations through crisis 作用

Leadership is an essential skill/competency 作用、概括

we take stock of the societal upheaval triggered by the pandemic
背景

Put simply	简而言之 + 概括

navigate crises  作用

::: tip leaders 抽象概括概念—具体细节

1 open-minded and informed by diverse sources

2 trusting and empowering of their teams

3 humble and deferring to expertise

4 communicating transparently and inspiringly

5 continuously learning

:::

We do not ordinarily plan for **the atypical, the anomalous, the irregular, or the exceptional on a day-to-day basis.**

::: tip 修改↓

Ordinary people do not plan for the atypical, the anomalous, the irregular, or the exceptional on a day-to-day basis, but a good leader will. 作用
Only good leader will prepare us for the atypical, the anomalous, the irregular, or the exceptional on a day-to-day basis. 作用

:::

overcome those blindspots  作用

和上面的作用结合：

::: tip  结合后：

Only good leader will help us overcome the blindspots of the atypical, the anomalous, the irregular, or the exceptional on a day-to-day basis. 

:::

certain leadership competencies  特定的领导能力

::: tip 继续改↓

Only certain leadership competencies will help us overcome the blindspots of the atypical, the anomalous, the irregular, or the exceptional on a day-to-day basis. 

:::

- Early warning/signal detection

分段 1：总 — 分

Good leadership requires sense-making and perspective-taking.概括

When something looks wrong, a qualified leader will ask whether the warning signs could under any circumstances develop into a problem. 表现  细节 

He will also obtain diverse voices and sources of information so he can see the big picture.	表现 细节

- preparation and prevention

动词短语：动作 (状态)、做事、表现、建议、目的

they have influence within their teams

proactively **trying** to prevent a crisis or limit its impact

proactively **nurture** organizational agility (foster)

proactively **deploy** creativity (apply, use)

proactively **cultivate** the trust and transparency that are key to inspiring colleagues to action

proactively **empower** others to respond and change course as needed makes organizations agile. (make, let, enable)

Creativity allows you to imagine new solutions

分段二：

Good leadership have influence within their teams. 概括

A qualified leader proactively cultivate the trust and transparency that are key to inspiring colleagues to action.具体细节

He will also empower others to respond and change course as needed, meanwhile deploy creativity to imagine new solutions.具体细节

- contain damage 

emerge from a crisis 作用
prepared leaders
use effective communication and iterative risk-taking to limit/contain the damage
convey urgency and purpose amid uncertainty. 
take risks at a moment when you will want to take them least

分段三：
Facing crisis, good leader should learn to contain damage. 概括
A prepared leader will use effective communication and iterative risk-taking to emerge from crises and convey urgency and purpose amid uncertainty. 表现
He will take risks when he will want to take them least. 表现